One of the most stressful parts about traveling is money. Often money holds people back from enjoying their vacation or time abroad. Financial concerns pull people out of the escape that they are seeking to enjoy during vacation. With a simple budgeting application, users can offload this task to their phones and watches. The program will guide them to spend at a rate that matches their means, saving them from the arduous bookkeeping that plagues many vacations.

Project description:

Users: Our target user group would be young backpackers. Although this application can help a variety of users, young people generally have more monetary constraints. By a variety of factors, including by lack of experience budgetting or just simply having less cash, younger backpackers generally have the most difficulty managing their travel funds. Of young travelers, backpackers often have the most difficult budgets as their daily expenditures can vary greatly. Backpackers want to get the most out of their experience by the cheapest means possible and so are an ideal target group. 

Problems: A problem for travelers alike is that they start out with a large sum of money designated for their trip, say $1000. Throughout their time away, it is easy to fall susceptible to spending $4 on a coffee, $15 on lunch, $80 on the hotel, $20 on souvenirs, etc. until a few day into their trip, they realize they have spent a good chunk of their money. It is so easy to get caught up in spending when you know you have a large amount to spend from. However, the key to have your money last the entire duration of your trip is to budget wisely. This is a skill that many people do not possess. Backpackers especially need this skill so that they can accomplish all that they want to and not worry about having to stop their journey and make plans. In addition, as backpackers travel through many different countries with different exchange rates, and with different costs of living, budgetting can become very complex and unpredictable. Money availability can influence where a backpacker will go and what they will do, so it is an important aspect of their trip. 

Complementary solutions: There are many budgeting applications that already exist. A popular tracker is Mint, a personal finance tracker created by Intuit. However, many of these scope the broad aspect of finance and not travel budgeting. For example, Mint is linked with all my bank accounts so that I can keep on eye on how much money I have in each account. It also shows me where my money is going, reminds me of bills I have to pay, etc. There is also the simple pen and paper budgeting in which a traveler may keep track of his or her finances through a daily journal.

Mobile app justification: This idea would be convenient on a mobile application because it would require less work from the traveler, who is probably more focused on enjoying his or her time away than on his or her finances. Instead of having to carry a journal around, they can log their finances in a simple mobile application. This would be more convenient because backpackers prefer to travel light. Therefore, travelers would be able to have their budgeting already planned out on their phone, an item that they would already be bringing with them. A regular desktop or web application would not be viable in this case because most of them will not bring their laptops with them on their travels and will not have access to many computers.

Smartwatch justification: A smartwatch would be a good solution to the problem because backpackers are always on the go! With all their traveling, it is easy to lose and misplace items. A phone could easily get lost within their giant backpack and would be very difficult to obtain when they are in need of it. In addition, amongst hostels, bars, and the many other locations backpackers explore, they could easily get their phone stolen. If they do not want it to get lost within their backpack and have their mobile phone in their pockets or outer pockets of their backpack, they are suspect to pickpocketing. A smartwatch would be readily available during their travels and always on their person, so it would be difficult to lose. Smartwatches are also present at the point of purchase, so users can always have a view of their budget when considering purchases. It is always ready to join them on their journey.

User Validation: I have talked to two people in my study abroad program. Both are currently in Lisbon  doing internships. One is a twenty year old male who just arrived about a week ago. Another is a twenty-two year old female who has been in Portugal for a month now and is going to stay for two more months. Both agree that a budgeting application would prove extremely helpful. The male user mentioned that he has had many friends who have “blown their money.” The female user said she would use the application herself, seeing as she spent a large sum of money during her first month in Portugal and is worried she may not have enough to sustain her remaining two months. 