Sleep Lag Calculator

Why We Picked It: We decided to pick this idea because jet lag is common and frustrating problem for many travelers. Jet lag can prevent people from making the most out of their time and can impact their judgement in a foreign place. Having an application that helps travelers assimilate to different zones as quickly as possible makes vacations more fun and work trips more productive. 

Target User Group: One target user group would be people who travel often across different time zones, either for recreational or business purposes, since they are the ones who deal with jet lag most frequently and can benefit from such an app. Brief research into U.S. travel statistics show that the average age of both leisure and business travelers is in the mid-40s, which makes sense since people are most likely to be financially capable or well-established in their careers at that age to afford being able to travel on a regular basis. Such people would want a sleep schedule laid out for them to help them adjust to their destination's different time zones beforehand, so that when they arrive they can be alert and focused instead of groggy and sleepy. More research is needed to understand how well this population of people manages sleep lag. If it seems like this user group already has solid knowledge about sleep lag management, we may target users who are less experienced, new travelers that rarely have to adjust to new timezones. 

Problem Description & Context: A familiar problem for people who have traveled across time zones is dealing with the effects of jet lag. If not accounted for, jet lag, in addition to making people feel sleepy, will render them unalert, unfocused, and stressed, which in turn may lead to poor decision making - definitely not ideal while abroad and in unfamiliar territory. For leisure travelers, this could mean difficulties socializing with the local culture, and for business travelers, this could render them unable to do their job. Obviously the bigger the jump between time zones, the more susceptible people are to jet lag, and as people grow older, they may take longer to recover and adjust to local time. Many people are unfamiliar with jet lag alleviating techniques and try to combat the effects of jet lag by trying to sleep a bit more on the plane or ingesting more caffeine, but not only do these "solutions" avoid solving the underlying problem regarding their body's circadian rhythm, they may also make their jet lag worse. Thus, to minimize jet lag, travelers should ideally adjust their sleep schedule days before they are scheduled to travel so that their bodies have time to gradually adjust to their destination's local time.

Existing Solutions: A quick search shows that the most popular solution that exists in an application called "Jet Lag Rooster", available on the web and on both Android and iOS platforms. Based on the locations the user is traveling to and from, what their usual sleep schedule is like, and when they plan to adjust to the time zone of their destination (before arrival, after departing, or after arrival), the application will generate a recommended sleep schedule that tells the user when the ideal time to start sleeping is and when the user should expose him or herself to light, helping users adjust their circadian rhythms in the context of their individual circumstances.

Mobile App Justification: A mobile app would be very convenient since people nowadays will almost always have a phone with them compared to not always being in front of a computer. Having a mobile app enables users to view and plan their activities around their recommended sleep schedules on the go, and the app can also help auto set alarms and push notifications to remind users when they should be going to sleep, waking up, exposing themselves to sunlight, or staying in the dark. People, as busy as they are nowadays, will more than likely forget their adjusted sleep schedules should be like, especially since they are unfamiliar with them, so having such information stored in the phone for convenient reference and having an app help remind users of their schedule will be of tremendous help.

Smartwatch Justification: A smartwatch app would complement the mobile app very well since the smartwatch is an interface that is always readily visible to the user. Avoiding jet lag is a very time-sensitive procedure, since it requires people to sleep and expose/avoid light at certain times throughout the day, so it is critical for such people to know when they should be doing what. A phone is not always the best solution for reminders since they can go unnoticed if the phone is on silent or the user doesn't physically have the phone at the moment a notification arrives, so the user may fail to follow their intended sleep schedule as a result. The smartwatch solves these problems since it is always on your wrist, which means you are more likely to see reminders as they appear. The Moto 360 we will be working with has a haptic motor which allows the user to receive silent feedback, so this feature can be taken advantage of to get the user's attention to ensure he or she receive the reminders regarding his or her sleep schedule. It could vibrate to wake users up at the appropriate time according to their schedule. The smartwatch can sense bodily movement. If the watch senses that a user is falling asleep too soon according to their schedule, it could vibrate to keep users awake. Such reminders and bodily tracking would be less easily achieved on a smartphone. 

User Validation: I reached out to two of my friends who had recently returned from Japan to ask them what they thought about our Jet Lag Calculator idea. Both of them are males, ages twenty-two and twenty-three, and the first had just recently graduated while the second is pursuing his Master's degree. They stayed in Japan for two weeks for recreational purposes, such as sightseeing and eating authentic Japanese cuisine. Both of them found the idea of a Jet Lag Calculator to be very interesting, and both were willing to try out such an app if the opportunity to do so arose. They said jet lag didn't bother them too much since they had plenty of time to recover given the duration of their trip, but the effects of jet lag (such as grogginess and irritability) was nevertheless not fun to deal with, and the effects would have had a much more significant impact if their trip was shorter. One of them mentioned that in less than twenty-four hours upon arriving back in California, he had to start at his first day at his new job, so he was exceptionally tired since it was impossible to adjust back to local time in such a short period. As a result, on his way to work he had a biking accident, which was a result of being unfocused. He admitted that having an app that could of helped him adjust back to the California's time zone before he returned would have minimized the exhaustion he felt from jet lag, which in turn would have prevented that accident from happening.
