The tourist heatmap provides a list of attractions in a local city and a heatmap of where other tourists are most commonly found.The more popular the tourist attraction, the redder the location on the map. The tourist heat map was chosen because it helps travelers discover attractions in new locations, and helping smaller local attractions gain more exposure. With the heatmap, users may be able to ditch the itinerary all together. 

Project Description:

Users: The tourist heatmap targets tourists who want to avoid tourist traps or places with high tourist foot traffic. Our target user wish to discover attractions off the beaten path. Such tourists seek to find a more authentic, less commercially packaged experience from their vacation. Such heatmaps may also be used by traditional tourists, who seek to know which attractions are the most popular and well established. 

Problems: When tourists visit a foreign country, cultural representations are often skewed by commercial interests. Many tourists have complained about not having an authentic experience from their travels. In addition, at many locations, there may be many popular tourist attractions, and the large selection of attractions can be overwhelming. Creating an itinerary to visit all possible attractions can be difficult and stressful. 

Complementary Solutions: Most travel apps focus on aiding travelers in developing an itinerary for their trips. However, there exist some apps that focus on impulse decisions during travel. Booking Now gives personalized accommodation recommendations based on a user's current location. It is used for travelers making a spontaneous vacation and do not have adequate time to track down a hotel. Peek is an app that encourages impromptu activities by travelers. Peek tracks the user's location to suggest activities and experiences nearby, additionally providing prices and availability of the recommendations. This app is both useful for the traveler in a foreign country, or a person at home trying to fun activities in their community. SightsMap provides a web interface that plots a heatmap of tourists. 

Mobile App Justification: This app focuses on adding improvisation to traveling. This is accomplished by the users making decisions on the fly. The user may be in a car, on a bike, on a train, on foot, or any other form of transit. A mobile application is easily accessible in these states of movement. A user can conveniently access the app through a portable friendly smartphone or smartwatch. These items can comfortably be carried by travelers, especially for users like to travel light. A laptop would be inconvenient to carry around and constantly open to view the map, especially when on foot. The use of the desktop app would be a heavy nuisance.

Smartwatch Justification: This app relies on using a map to get around a foreign country. The users need constant access to the map for successful travel to a particular location. A smartwatch allows for quick, convenient access to the map. The user can glimpse at his wrist and know exactly where his location is in relation to his destination. This action will most likely occur every few minutes. The user can try to use a smartphone to do this, but constant retrieval of the phone may prove bothersome, especially including the time to unlock the phone and select the app. The persistent use of the app lends itself to a quick lookup system provided by the watch, in lieu of the more involved process of viewing the map via a smartphone.

User Validation: I talked to two people that both travel to foreign countries annually. One was a thirty year old female who recently vacationed in Europe. She said she liked the concept of the app, but did not want to use it internationally. She said being in a foreign country can sometimes be uncomfortable, and having a set itinerary of what to do and where to go makes her feel more secure in an unknown environment. However, she said that this app would be useful for road trips. She takes road trips with friends and family, but she sometimes finds them long and dull. Having spontaneous rest breaks with suggestions found through the heat map app would be a nice way to add excitement to a sometimes monotonous trip. The other person said he liked the app, but he would not use it to choose places to visit. Instead, he would use the app to avoid busy tourist attractions. He does not enjoy the crowds of tourists when in foreign countries. Instead, he enjoys the parts of the foreign country that refrain from tourists, and allow him to immerse himself in the culture of the foreign land. 