Splash Screen:
Simple app loading screen that displays the app name Sleep Sentry, and the app's missionfocus of beating jet lag.

Task 1: Entering Travel Information and Current/Desired Sleep Schedule (Moderate)
In order to create a sleep strategy for users, the app must intake the users' travel information.

Suppose a user is traveling from San Franciso to Shanghai and wants to avoid sleep lag. The user opens the Sleep Sentry app to enter his travel information. The app opens and asks the user to choose between two methods of input: entering a current and destination city, and entering a flight number and travel date. The current and destination city entry is a convenient way for the user to quickly provide the app with the user's current and target time zones. The user selects these cities with a text box that provides autocomplete suggestions as the user types. The flight number and travel date entry may be more taxing on the user because it requires him to lookup his flight information, but it is beneficial to the user because it provides the app with not only the current and destination time zone, but also the times of departure and arrival. This additional information may be used in the process of creating a sleep strategy for the user. Once inputted the important travel information, the user inputs the times he currently wakes up and goes to sleep at in his current location, then the user inputs the times he wants to wake up and sleep at in his destination location. Once again, this is additional information needed for the app to determine a sleep strategy conducive for adjusting the user to the time zone of the destination location. The central rationale behind this section is that this is information that our app will need. We want to streamline this process as much as possible.

Task 2: Understanding and selecting strategies (Hard)
Suppose a user has finished entering his travel information and is prompted to select a sleep strategy, but he is unfamiliar with sleep tactics associated with preventing sleep lag. The Sleep Sentry app will provide a list of strategies and a short description associated with each strategy. If a user wants to learn more about a strategy, he can click on the strategy's short description, and a new page will come up with a full description of the strategy. Once satisfied with additional knowledge of the strategy, the user may revert back to the list of strategies and either select the strategy currently researched, or further research other strategies. Once content with his understanding of the strategies, the user will select a strategy, and move on to viewing the corresponding sleep schedule. The central rationale behind giving users the choice of the optional strategies is that not all users may be able to take melatonin, and not all users will be able to manipulate their light exposure, so some of these strategies may be futile to push onto all users.

Task 3: Checking Sleep Schedule Details (Easy)
After a user has completed the two previous tasks, he will be presented with the recommended sleep plan to adjust for jet lag. The sleep plan will be expressed in a sequence of graphs. One graph will exists for every day between the current day to the day of departure. The user may swipe left or right to see the next or previous day sleep plan, respectively. The graph shown has a sine curve which represents the daylight cycle of the Destination time zone. The white and shaded areas of the graph indicate daytime and nighttime, respectively. The horizontal axis indicates time, and the time in the Current and Destination time zones are displayed on the top and the bottom of the graph, respectively. The striped portion of the graph indicates the times the app suggests the user to be asleep. The user has successfully catered his sleep pattern to the destination time zone when the entire striped area lies in graph where the sine curve is concave up. At the bottom of the screen, there is a checklist of what users need to do to follow the plan. Users can reference this section whenever they are curious about their sleep strategies. This page is to provide a centralized location for all the details of their sleep strategy. The graph is meant to help the user understand the sleep plan with a visual representation of what the sleep plan is trying to accomplish daily. The checklist mimicks the many todo apps that have been so successful in the app store.

Task 4: Implementing Sleep Strategy (Hard)
After a user has selected a sleep strategy, the user himself must follow it. The app will try to guide the user in following the strategy, but the user must implement it himself. The app guides the user by sending notifications. 

Suppose a user has already entered his travel information and desired sleep schedule and is now returning to his day-to-day activities. The user is engulfed in his regular life that he forgets that he is on a mission to adjust his sleep habits in accordance to his target location. No worries though, cause the watch got his back. 

As the user is carrying on with his daily activities, his watch face is the graph described in the previous task. It shows the time in the user's current location and the time in his target location. This graph is set as the smartwatch's default face because it is a constant reminder that the user is on a sleep strategy. 

The watch also sends notifications to the user throughout the day. The watch has two different sleep alert notifications. Four examples of notifications are provided above. The first notification reminds the user to go to sleep at a specific time to stay in accordance with his sleeping plan. The second notification goes off to regulate the user's melatonin levels which are crucial to monitor to achieve a good sleep pattern. The third notification goes off if a user is exposed to too much or too little light, which the watch detects with the ambient light sensor. The fourth notification happens when the user has fallen asleep too early, and the watch is trying to wake him up through vibration.

The central rationale behind these notification is taht notifications on the phone may be missed because they may be detached from the user. Especially for trying to wake someone out of an unintended sleep, the watch is the closest available physical contact for vibrations. The watch face provides information that mirrors the phone apps, being able to take that information on the go.

Task 5: Evaluating Strategies (Moderate)
Suppose a user has arrived at his target location and has spent a couple days there and knows whether the sleep strategy worked or not. The user can evaluate how well the sleep strategy worked for them. The user will be provided a few questions like "How did the strategy work for you?", "Do you think the melatonin helped?", "Do you think light exposure monitoring helped?", "Do you have any suggestions on how we can make this experience better for you?". After filling out the various questions provided, the user can rate the effectiveness of the strategy by giving a rating out of five stars. The user then clicks the rate button and the evaluation is saved in the app history, and also sent to the app servers. The central rationale for this is that people are different and sleep very differently. This section encourages people to document and understand how they personally sleep, and what strategies worked and which did not work for them.

Task 6: View history of uses (Easy)
On the main menu of the screen, there is a history button that the user may select. This button will bring up a scrollable list of past trips the user took and the ratings given to each sleep strategy tried. This is for when users are more introspective about their sleep habits, perhaps when they hav more time back home.